Matplotlib has support for
several kinds of bar charts.
The most general case, we plot a bar
chart by sending in a parameter
of the x components, and
a parameter of the height of the bar.
Let's do this with our linear data.
Here I'm going to just create a list of
values as long as our linear data list.
Then, we'll send this along with
the linear data's bar heights,
to the bar function.
We pass in the width of the bar as 0.3.
To add a second bar, we simply call
the bar plot again with new data,
keeping in mind that we need to
adjust the x component to make up for
the first bar we plotted.
Of course, we'll throw this bar in as red.
So the plot looks okay, but not great.
All of the x labels are to the far
left of the items being described, and
not centered.
Now, we can center them with a given bar,
using the align parameter, but
it's a bit frustrating when you
have to make multiple bars, and
you have to calculate it yourself.
And it's a pain to go through and
add a new data series manually.
And this gets worse, we actually
have to manually iterate through and
add in dates if we want them.
Because otherwise we couldn't set
the bar left location appropriately.
I'll be honest,
bar charts are one of my least favorite
things to create in matplotlib.
I feel like the foundation is there,
but some of the ways I
would want to use the API,
such as plotting several series of data
in groups across time, are sadly missing.
There are some other nice
features of bar charts, though.
For instance, you can add error
bars to each bar as well,
using the y-error parameter.
For example, each of our pieces of data in
the linear data might actually be a mean
value, computed from many
different observations.
So we could just create
a list of error values.
I'll import from a random function which
can generate some random integers, and
then I'll use a list comprehension
to generate this new list.
Then we could just call plt.bar again,
and see our new data appear.
We can also do stacked bar charts as well.
For instance, if we wanted to show
cumulative values while also keeping
the series independent, we could do
this by setting the bottom parameter and
our second plot to be equal
to first set of data to plot.
Finally, we can pivot this bar graph
into a horizontal bar graph by calling
the barh function instead.
But note that we have to change the bottom
to a left and the width to a height.
So those are the basics of charting and
plotting in Matplotlib.
I think it's important to realize
that there really isn't any magic.
The scripting layer is really
a set of convenience functions
on top of the object layer.
Some people share a preference for
one or the other, but at the core,
they manipulate the same data elements.
And I don't think you should think of
them as being opposed to one another or
duplicative.
They work together, and being able to
move back and forth is really important.
We've talked about some
fundamental charts in this module.
Scatter plots, line graphs,
and bar charts.
There are more,
which we'll dig into in the next module.
But these are a good basis.
The assignment for
this module is a tough one.
It's meant to show you real world
data visualization problems.
You're going to have to lever your
knowledge of the Pandas Library from
the first course and
couple this with your new knowledge of
Matplotlib to come to an elegant solution.
But the final result should
be a portfolio ready piece.
So I'll see you in the forums for
discussions and for help.